Bursitis is the painful swelling of a small,
fluid-filled sac called a bursa.
These sacs act as a cushion
for areas where bone would otherwise
rub on muscle, tendons or skin.
By padding these areas
they decrease friction, and inflammation.
But due to overuse or excess pressure,
most often around joints,
a bursa can become irritated and painful.
Common areas to develop bursitis are
the joints you use over and over, like the:
Shoulders
Elbows
Knees
Feet
Hips
Symptoms of bursitis include:
Pain, especially during movement
Swelling
Limited range of motion
Redness
Treatment typically involves
resting the affected joint and
protecting it from further trauma.
Bursitis may come and go.
Repeated flare-ups may damage the bursa
and reduce your mobility in that joint.
Avoid sitting or kneeling too long.
These positions put a lot of pressure on joints.
Using cushions or pads when you kneel
or put weight on your elbows
can help avoid repeated injury.